###### tags: `CDF` `SIG Interoperability`

# CDF Interoperability SIG Meetings 2022

[![HacmKD documents](https://hackmd.io/badge.svg)](https://hackmd.io/HuufSDMaTPyb3qxkyBKg3A?edit)

## Note

This document contains the minutes of the SIG Interoperability meetings held during 2022 and kept for historical/archive purposes.
Please do not edit this document.

If you are looking for the latest SIG Interoperability minutes of meetings, please head over to [CDF Interoperability SIG Meetings document](https://hackmd.io/HuufSDMaTPyb3qxkyBKg3A?view).

## Quick links

* [Logistics](#Logistics)
* [Meeting Recordings](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL2KXbZ9-EY9QxICOnONBFPn_cYfJ8BsaG)
* [Agenda and Notes](#Agenda-and-Notes)

    * 2022-12-15/2023-01-05 Meetings Cancelled for Winter Break
    * [2022-12-01 Meeting](#December-1-2022)
    * [2022-11-17 Meeting](#November-17-2022)
    * 2022-11-03 Meeting (Cancelled)
    * [2022-10-20 Meeting](#October-20-2022)
    * [2022-10-06 Meeting](#October-6-2022)
    * [2022-09-15 Meeting](#September-15-2022)
    * [2022-09-01 Meeting](#September-1-2022)
    * [2022-08-18 Meeting](#August-18-2022)
    * [2022-08-04 Meeting](#August-4-2022)
    * [2022-07-21 Meeting](#July-21-2022)
    * [2022-07-07 Meeting](#July-7-2022)
    * [2022-06-16 Meeting](#June-16-2022)
    * [2022-06-02 Meeting](#June-2-2022)
    * 2022-05-19 Meeting (Cancelled)
    * 2022-05-05 Meeting (Cancelled)
    * [2022-04-21 Meeting](#April-21-2022)
    * [2022-04-07 Meeting](#April-7-2022)
    * [2022-03-17 Meeting](#March-17-2022)
    * [2022-03-03 Meeting](#March-3-2022)
    * [2022-02-17 Meeting](#February-17-2022)
    * [2022-02-03 Meeting](#February-3-2022)
    * [2022-01-20 Meeting](#January-20-2022)

## Logistics

* **Meeting notes on HackMD.io**: https://hackmd.io/@cdfoundation/ry3TTB5DL
* **When**: First and third Thursdays at [3pm UTC](https://time.is/3pm_in_UTC) during summer time and at [4pm UTC](https://time.is/4pm_in_UTC) during winter time).
* **Zoom Bridge**: https://zoom.us/j/827082528?pwd=RlN5OUZtVVBuZGZRY0NBRnZyZ0NJQT09
* **Zoom International dial-in numbers**: https://zoom.us/zoomconference
* **Meeting Recordings**: [CDF Youtube Channel SIG Interoperability Playlist](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL2KXbZ9-EY9QxICOnONBFPn_cYfJ8BsaG)
* **CDF Public Calendar**: [here](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=linuxfoundation.org_mhf0kmgedn67ihni8r129avp24%40group.calendar.google.com&ctz=America%2FLos_Angeles)
* **Past Presentations in CDF Presentations Repository**: https://github.com/cdfoundation/presentations/tree/master/sig-interoperability
* **Presentation Schedule**: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Owg_I52WEXzqF8g_lX6OTdwbHkH4Z2-7TBA7eCSVMqY/edit
* **2021 Meeting Minutes**: https://github.com/cdfoundation/sig-interoperability/blob/master/docs/meetings_2021.md
* **2020 Meeting Minutes**: https://github.com/cdfoundation/sig-interoperability/blob/master/docs/meetings_2020.md

### December 1, 2022

#### Participants
* Melissa McKay, JFrog
* Justin Abrahms, eBay
* Fatih Degirmenci, CDF

#### Agenda & Notes
* CDF Interoperability Whitepaper Update, All
    * Whitepaper will be further discussed during the meeting on January 19th.
    * Between now and the meeting, we will continue looking at it async to see what updates are needed.
* go-scm Discussion
    * Will be presented at TOC meeting next week - Tues, Dec 6, 4pm UTC
    * History: project was forked under JenkinsX
* Additional Topics
    * The [whitepaper](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1o5jHbuEQuspwYOruVB4L5-rG8E1wQm5chq8QN7BrrBs/edit#), [the original SIG proposal](https://github.com/cdfoundation/toc/pull/62), and previous conversations such as intent based pipelines, abstractions and so on could be discussed further.
    * There is also an opportunity to collaborate with [Value Stream Mapping (VSM) Interoperability Technical Committee](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/tc_home.php?wg_abbrev=vsmi)
* Action Items:
    * Melissa - fix meeting time on CDF Public calendar, cancel next two meetings, and communicate via slack & email list that next meeting will be Jan 19th
    * Melissa - update past presentation SIG documentation: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Owg_I52WEXzqF8g_lX6OTdwbHkH4Z2-7TBA7eCSVMqY/edit#heading=h.lx7kiadw52fq
    * Justin, Fatih, Melissa - review whitepaper
    * Justin, Fatih, Melissa - populate new agenda items/topics for meeting discussions (see above)

### November 17, 2022

#### Participants
* Justin Abrahms, eBay
* Emil BÃ¤ckmark, Ericsson
* Fatih Degirmenci, CDF
* Terry Cox

#### Agenda & Notes
* CDF Interoperability Whitepaper, All
    * It would be good to refresh and simplify the whitepaper so it can be published.
    * The target date for publishing it could be 2023Q1 so we start the year with highlighting our efforts in the area.
    * v1: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Bgr6EHhW4wUTphU8xyMg87qzSee43PEA_gGdMnPHq9Q/edit#
        * Feedback when it was originally prepping for release was "this isn't a whitepaper"
    * v2: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1o5jHbuEQuspwYOruVB4L5-rG8E1wQm5chq8QN7BrrBs/edit#
        * Removed case studies (dated, lack of point-of-contact)
        * Still a need for this paper to discuss the problem space
            * Some portions are partially addressed, but there are new emerging interoperability ideas/concerns
    * AI: Justin (with Melissa?) will push forward this document with a target of Q1 of 2023.
    * AI: Fatih to pre-flight the whitepaper idea w/ LF

### October 20, 2022

#### Participants
* Justin Abrahms, eBay
* Fatih Degirmenci, CDF
* Fog Dong, KubeVela/Alibaba Cloud
* Da Ying, KubeVela/Alibaba Cloud
* Qingguo Zeng
* Qiao Zhongpei
* Sun Jianbo
* Richard Kilmurray
* Terry Cox
* Vedran Zdesic

#### Agenda & Notes
* Presentation & Open Discussion [KubeVela](https://kubevela.io/) with Da Yin & Fog Dong

### October 6, 2022

#### Participants
* Oliver Nocon, SAP
* \<AddMe\>

#### Agenda & Notes
* Open Action Items, All
* News/Announcements
    * Oct 20th: [KubeVela](https://kubevela.io/)
* New Action Items
* Presentation & Open Discussion: [FRSCA](https://buildsec.github.io/frsca/) with Parth Patel


### September 15, 2022

_This meeting was cancelled due to issues with Zoom._


### September 1, 2022

#### Participants
* Melissa McKay, JFrog
* Andres Almiray
* Justin Abrahms
* Fatih Degirmenci
* Kara de la Marck
* Rajat Gupta
* \<AddMe\>

#### Agenda & Notes
* Open Action Items, All
* News/Announcements
* New Action Items
* Presentation & Open Discussion: [JReleaser](https://jreleaser.org/) with Andres Almiray


### August 18, 2022

#### Participants
* Justin Abrahms, eBay
* Andrea Frittoli, IBM
* Fatih Degirmenci, CDF
* Melissa McKay, JFrog
* Andres Almiray
* Kara de la Marck, CDF
* Rajat Gupta, Jenkins X
* \<AddMe\>

#### Agenda & Notes
* Open Action Items (outstanding from previous meetings)
    * Justin: [Intent based pipelines article](https://cd.foundation/blog/2022/07/13/help-wanted-intent-based-pipelines/)
        * possibly an abstraction layer between definition and implementation?
        * Take a look at [GitOps Toolkit - WeaveWorks](https://github.com/weaveworks/weave-gitops)
        * Possible follow up with tweet/etc
    * Melissa: Determine WHERE in the best practices site to add vocabulary documentation (https://bestpractices.cd.foundation/); Review Terry's suggestions from last meeting
        * Possibly Learn section or Resources?
        * Posting vendor specific information on the Best Practices site feels off, but perhaps linking via a References section makes sense
    * Fatih & Ann Marie: address vocabulary split and conflicts in outstanding PRs
        * Waiting for review
    * Melissa/Justin: scheduling a presentation time for go-scm & FRSCA
        * Queries have gone to both for availability
* CDEvents and Pipeline terminology alignment
* Other announcements
    * JReleaser will be presenting Sep 1
    * Our github default branch has been renamed from master to main - thank you Kara!
* Future topics for the Interoperability SIG to consider (open discussion)
* New Landscape Category
    * https://github.com/cdfoundation/cdf-landscape/issues/243
    * Moving forward with adding new category (open to later name change)
* New Action Items:
    * Andrea: Make PR for link back to tools doc from Best Practices site
        * https://github.com/cdfoundation/best-practices-site/pull/26
    * Fatih: Give Justin a list of names of project maintainers
    * Justin: Reach out to project maintainers regarding Interoperability issues
    * Melissa: Start convo in slack channel(s) regarding new ideas for Interoperability topics

### August 4, 2022

#### Participants
* Melissa McKay, JFrog
* Kara de la Marck, CDF
* Tim Miller, Kusari

#### Agenda & Notes
* Reference Architecture discussions will be continued in the Best Practices SIG (possibly a new working group)
* New projects to present to the SIG
    * go-scm - [ACTION] agree on a scheduled time for presentation
    * JReleaser - schedule presentation Sep 1
* FRSCA Project - https://github.com/buildsec/frsca
    * [ACTION] - schedule a presentation
* [CDF Landscape](https://github.com/cdfoundation/cdf-landscape)
    * We welcome PRs to add projects -- JReleaser now added 
    * If you feel a category is missing, please raise an issue


### July 21, 2022

#### Participants
* Justin Abrahms, eBay
* Kara de la Marck, CDF
* Fatih Degirmenci, CDF
* Terry Cox

#### Agenda & Notes
* Reference Architecture chat
    * [deck around what a reference architecture is](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1SSSHPLSXEUgg0vu644zrZPvCW9sUYSBwzSCDO_fZtF8/edit#slide=id.g13b9833d9a3_0_28)
    * current docs/projects are "open source & bottom up" which don't take a hollistic view of the whole problem space
    * There are two camps, from user interviews: 
        * folks who are steeped in CD culture
        * folks who have a loose grasp on what CD means but need some help understanding how to get value from it or get from where they are to where they need to be
    * The work will be to define the common patterns used in pipelines
    * The MLOps space, as an example, is not very well connected to traditional CD pipelines.
        * https://github.com/cdfoundation/sig-mlops/blob/master/roadmap/2021/MLOpsRoadmap2021.md

### July 7, 2022

#### Participants
* Justin Abrahms, eBay
* Kara de la Marck, CDF
* Melissa McKay, JFrog
* Andrea Frittoli, IBM
* Ann Marie Fred, Red Hat
* \<AddMe\>

#### Agenda and Notes
* Introduction - Justin Abrahms, new Co-Chair
* Presentation - Uffizzi by Josh Thurman
    * on demand environments in k8s
    * designed to work with any ci/cd platform
    * triggered by cd events (maybe also CDEvents??)
    * QUICK LINKS-
        * Open Source Repo https://github.com/UffizziCloud/uffizzi_app
        * Public Road Map https://github.com/UffizziCloud/roadmap
        * GHA https://github.com/UffizziCloud/preview-action
        * Uffizzi  https://uffizzi.com/
        * Docs https://docs.uffizzi.com.  https://github.com/UffizziCloud/docs
        * Uffizzi Users Slack https://uffizzi.slack.com/join/shared_invite/zt-ffr4o3x0-J~0yVT6qgFV~wmGm19Ux9A#/shared-invite/email
        * Uffizzi Helm Chart https://artifacthub.io/packages/helm/uffizzi-app/uffizzi-app
        * Uffizzi Newsletter Sign-up. http://eepurl.com/hsws0b
* Open Action Items
    * Justin: intent based pipelines article
    * Melissa: Determine WHERE in the best practices site to add vocabulary documentation (https://bestpractices.cd.foundation/); Review Terry's suggestions from last meeting
    * Fatih & Ann Marie: address vocabulary split and conflicts in outstanding PRs - move to early-August meeting
* CDEvents and Pipeline terminology alignment (if time permits) - move to early-August meeting

### June 16, 2022

#### Participants
* Melissa McKay, JFrog
* Kara de la Marck, CDF
* Andres Almiray
* Josh Thurman
* Jeremy Adams
* Maria Ashby
* Richard Kilmurray
* Fatih Degirmenci
* Andrea Frittoli
* Brett Smith
* \<addme\>

#### Agenda and Notes
* Presentation - dagger.io by Jeremy Adams
* Open Discussion

### June 2, 2022

#### Participants
* Melissa McKay, JFrog
* Kara de la Marck, CDF
* Ann Marie Fred, Red Hat
* Jeremy Adams, Dagger
* Justin Abrahms, eBay
* Emil BÃ¤ckmark, Ericsson
* Fatih Degirmenci
* \<addme\>
    
#### Agenda and Notes
* Action Item Review, All
    * Jeremy Adams, Dagger.io - June 16th scheduled presentation
* SIG Interoperability Co-chair nominations/elections
    * NOMINATION: Justin Abrahms, eBay
* Ann Marie has [a talk repping this sig](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1UoufcCfqYzcBsD2zUDaKPg9V3BBFTF4g/view?usp=sharing) next week at cdCon virtual ([sched session link](https://cdcon2022.sched.com/event/12vF9/virtual-session-continuous-integration-and-continuous-delivery-pipelines-for-beginners-and-managers-ann-marie-fred-red-hat)) and OpenInfra Summit Berlin!
* [CDEventsCon wrap up blog post](https://cd.foundation/blog/2022/05/25/cdeventscon-2022-wrap-up/), including link to YouTube channel to all the talks and presentations at CDEventsCon
* **ACTION ITEM:** Fatih & Ann Marie address vocabulary split and conflicts in outstanding PRs
* **ACTION ITEM:** Melissa - Determine WHERE in the best practices site to add vocabulary documentation (https://bestpractices.cd.foundation/); Review Terry's suggestions from last meeting
* **ACTION ITEM:** Melissa & Justin finish up article next week at cdCon


### April 21, 2022

#### Participants
* Fatih Degirmenci, Ericsson Software Technology
* Kara de la Marck, CDF
* Melissa McKay, JFrog


#### Agenda and Notes
* Action Item Review, All
    * **ACTION ITEM:** Melissa still needs to reach out to dagger.io
    * **ACTION ITEM:** Justin/Melissa - wrap up intent driven pipeline thoughts for article
* SIG Interoperability Co-chair nominations/elections
    * Look for email in the mailing list and submit your nominations!
* Documentation Consult with Best Practices SIG - Terry Cox & Tara Hernandez
    * Web site in development: [https://deploy-preview-4--preview-site-cdf-bp.netlify.app/](https://deploy-preview-4--preview-site-cdf-bp.netlify.app/)    * Web site in development: [https://deploy-preview-4--preview-site-cdf-bp.netlify.app/](https://deploy-preview-4--preview-site-cdf-bp.netlify.app/)    * Web site in development: [https://deploy-preview-4--preview-site-cdf-bp.netlify.app/](https://deploy-preview-4--preview-site-cdf-bp.netlify.app/)    * Web site in development: [https://deploy-preview-4--preview-site-cdf-bp.netlify.app/](https://deploy-preview-4--preview-site-cdf-bp.netlify.app/)
    * Consider audience - our current documentation is geared toward a more technical and implementation level
        * Step 1: link our current reference docs as they are in resources/references section
            * Keep our own copy for updates and maintenance in our own repo
            * Update the publication on Best Practices site periodically
            * **ACTION ITEM:** Kara to link intial resource docs
        * Consider higher level audience documentation (less detail)
            * What is the problem you are trying to solve???
            * **ACTION ITEM:** Fatih will work on higher level documentation
* Discussion about maturity models
    * [SLSA](https://slsa.dev/)
    * DORA metrics
    * Be careful about making value judgements based on maturity/effectiveness levels
* \<addme\>

### April 7, 2022

#### Participants
* Melissa McKay, JFrog
* Fatih Degirmenci, Ericsson Software Technology
* Mattias LinnÃ©r, Ericsson
* Justin Abrahms, eBay
* \<addme\>

#### Agenda and Notes
* Action Item Review, All
* Open PR Reviews
    * [Pipeline step types proposal](https://github.com/cdfoundation/sig-interoperability/pull/81)
    * [Initial proposal for pipeline stage terminology](https://github.com/cdfoundation/sig-interoperability/pull/76)
    * ACTION ITEM: Fatih pinging all involved to resolve all items between now and next meeting, open issues where needed
* Open Discussion
    * [What quality gates do you have?](https://github.com/cdfoundation/sig-interoperability/discussions/83)
    * ACTION ITEM: Justin - begin composing documentation on Quality Gates (from discussion material)
* Documentation considerations
    * Sync with Best Practices
    * Consider using HackMD
    * Split up the documentation resulting from most recent PRs into high level vs technical implementation details
    * ACTION ITEM: Melissa - reach out to Best Practices SIG on documentation (invite to meeting)
* New Discussion
    * [Slack thread (in general channel)](https://cdeliveryfdn.slack.com/archives/CJQU6EHHP/p1648923213508359)
    * [Intent-based pipelines](https://github.com/cdfoundation/sig-interoperability/discussions/91)
        * dagger.io
        * take a look at (for inspiration): 
          -  [shipa](https://shipa.io/miscellaneous/kubernetes-dagger-deployment-with-shipa/)?
          -  [Crossplane & Kubernetes Workshop](https://devrel.shipa.io/cp-idp-workshop)
          -  [Jenkins X](https://jenkins-x.io/blog/2020/11/11/accelerate-tekton/)
    * ACTION ITEM: Melissa - reach out to dagger.io for a possible presentation, come up with CI yaml (ideal example)
    * ACTION ITEM: Justin - work on blog post about intent based pipelines (the high level concept)
* \<addme\>

### March 17, 2022

#### Participants
* Melissa McKay, JFrog
* Mattias LinnÃ©r, Ericsson
* Mike Beemer, Dynatrace
* Fatih Degirmenci, Ericsson Software Technology
* \<addme\>

#### Agenda and Notes
* Action Item Review, All
* Meeting time change
    * Meeting time change to 15:00 UTC to match up with seasonal time changes
    * Melissa will update on the public calendar
* Presentation on the Open Feature Project by Michael Beemer
    * Open standard for feature flag management
    * https://open-feature.github.io/\<addme\>
* \<addme\>

### March 3, 2022

#### Participants
* Kara de la Marck, CDF
* Fatih Degirmenci, Ericsson Software Technology
* Justin Abrahms, eBay
* Mattias LinnÃ©r, Ericsson
* Melissa McKay, JFrog
* Ann Marie Fred, Red Hat

#### Agenda and Notes
* Action Item Review, All
* [cdCon](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/cdcon/) Updates, CFP, Kara de la Marck
* SIG Interoperability Co-chair nominations/elections
    * Melissa McKay has been nominated as new SIG Interoperability Chair and has accepted! Welcome Melissa McKay! ð
* Pipeline [Steps](https://github.com/cdfoundation/sig-interoperability/pull/81)/[Stages](https://github.com/cdfoundation/sig-interoperability/pull/76)/[Quality Gates](https://github.com/cdfoundation/sig-interoperability/discussions/83) and Software Supply Chain, All
    * [CNCF Security TAG Software Supply Chain Best Practices](https://github.com/cncf/tag-security/blob/main/supply-chain-security/supply-chain-security-paper/CNCF_SSCP_v1.pdf)
    * [Secure Software Factory RFC](https://docs.google.com/document/d/15M_Mzfqy634E_sqoslmOXsZJl4TedpbXpBjOfz-hnXk/edit#)
    * [SLSA](https://slsa.dev/)
    * [in-toto](https://in-toto.io)
* Pipeline certification/badge discussion
    * SRE, DevOps, Quality criteria
    * [Operate First](https://www.operate-first.cloud/)
* [Flow Framework](https://flowframework.org/)

### February 17, 2022

#### Participants
* Kara de la Marck, CDF
* Fatih Degirmenci, Ericsson Software Technology
* Anders Eknert, Styra
* Jeremy Stanley, OpenDev/Zuul
* Melissa McKay, JFrog
* Mattias LinnÃ©r, Ericsson
* Justin Abrahms, eBay
* \<addme\>

#### Agenda and Notes
* Action Item Review, All
* SIG Interoperability Co-chair nominations/elections, Fatih Degirmenci, All
* [cdCon](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/cdcon/) Updates, CFP, Kara de la Marck
    * cdCon CFP is open until midnight 18 February -- TOMORROW!!: https://events.linuxfoundation.org/cdcon/program/cfp/#overview
        - Please submit a talk even if you donât know if your company is sponsoring travel yet. 
        - We do ask that speakers be at cdCon in person and present their talks live at cdCon.
    * If you think you may attend cdCon and would like to participate in a CDEvents Contributor Summit, [please fill out this form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSeZGMEGldtkrj1viMcT9nQgAgHZVkIlzQZ45aTvN74992Mawg/viewform?usp=sf_link)
        * For each Contributor Summit, we should normally be able to provide breakfast, snacks at breaks, and beverages throughout the day. :coffee: :croissant:  
        - So it is important for CDF to have an estimate of number of attendees
* CDEvents 
    * Repo: https://github.com/cdevents
    * CDEvents logo finalised: https://github.com/cdfoundation/artwork/tree/main/cdevents
    * CDEvents website (beta): https://cdevents.dev/
    * CDEvents are on the landscape ð  https://landscape.cd.foundation/
    * And on CDF website, listed with all the other projects  https://cd.foundation/projects/
* KubeCon update: CDEvents will have a full day co-located at KubeCon EU ð¥³ 
    * https://github.com/cdfoundation/sig-events/issues/115
    * This will be officially announced soon. If you will be at [KubeCon EU](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/kubecon-cloudnativecon-europe/) please do join us!
* Discussion on Quality Gates:
    * GH Discussion: https://github.com/cdfoundation/sig-interoperability/discussions/83
    * Anders Eknert, from Styra, is joining us to discuss quality gates.


### February 3, 2022

#### Participants
* Kara de la Marck, CDF
* Justin Abrahms, eBay
* Oliver Nocon, SAP
* fungi
* \<addme\>

#### Agenda and Notes
* Action Item Review, All
* [cdCon](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/cdcon/) Updates, CFP, Kara de la Marck
    * cdCon CFP is open until midnight 18 February: https://events.linuxfoundation.org/cdcon/program/cfp/#overview
        - Please submit a talk even if you donât know if your company is sponsoring travel yet. 
        - We do ask that speakers be at cdCon in person and present their talks live at cdCon.
        - However, restrictions are loosening around the world and travelling to cdCon will likely be possible for most individuals (although regretably maybe not for all)
    * We are currently organising the Contributor Summits for cdCon 2022. 
        * The Contributor Summits are focused on CDF projects: https://cd.foundation/projects/
        * For all CDF projects that are interested in hosting a Contributor Summit at cdCon, please appoint a lead organiser/host for your summit and have that individual fill out the form below:
 https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfJGFdQhFAbScBt3y3sW0WCQMl903X9T3ycmix0PpB2Zq8aoQ/viewform
        * The deadline to fill out the form and formally request space at cdCon is February 28.
        * For each Contributor Summit, we should normally be able to provide breakfast, snacks at breaks, and beverages throughout the day. :coffee: :croissant:
* Fosdem is this weekend!! https://fosdem.org/2022/
    * [CI/CD devroom](https://fosdem.org/2022/schedule/track/continuous_integration_and_continuous_deployment/)
* SIG Interoperability Co-chair nominations/elections, Fatih Degirmenci, All
* New work around terminology for pipeline [stages](https://github.com/cdfoundation/sig-interoperability/pull/76) and [steps](https://github.com/cdfoundation/sig-interoperability/pull/81) - see links to PRs. Ann Marie Fred
* Updating SIG Interoperability Roadmap, Reminder
    * Link to the document: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1uf3sb-WJUp3Acd3WYL5SvgVECHevonufJOxd6KftOxc/edit#
    * Software Supply Chain
        * Standardized Metadata
        * Artifact Handling
        * Policy Driven CD
    * CDEvents 
    * Would be interesting to outline or create a catalogue of quality gates. 
        * Gather a list of what quality gates companies and teams are using in the wild. 
            * Mini case studies for different quality gates would be interesting.
            * How to gather: Survey? Shoutout on channels? See action items below.
            * Relates to best practices
            * Also, would be interesting to consider how to evaluate pipelines (not testing the actual pipeline or security concerns, necessarily), but really what should a pipeline contain. Again, very much a best practices question.
            * What signals do we use for quality?
                * execution speed of pipelines, etc
                * How many quality checks, ideal range
                * how do the quality checks bucket -- interesting to see if this becomes evident once catalogue created (eg, gates in place pre and post production/rollout)
* \<addme\>

#### Action Items
* [Justin Abrahms to create discussion on Interop SIG repo on what quality gates on being used by teams.](https://github.com/cdfoundation/sig-interoperability/discussions/83)
* Kara to make sure CDF publicizes the discussion.
* Kara to bring in others, from Styra, etc, to discuss how they see quality gates being used in practice.

### January 20, 2022

#### Participants
* Fatih Degirmenci, Ericsson Software Technology
* Kara de la Marck, CDF
* Jeremy Stanley, OpenDev/Zuul
* Ann Marie Fred, Red Hat
* Emil Backmark, Ericsson
* Mattias LinnÃ©r, Ericsson
* Jalander Ramagiri, Ericsson Software Technology
* Ramin Akhbari, Salesforce
* Erik Sternerson, doWhile
* Justin Abrahms, eBay

#### Agenda and Notes
* Action Item Review, All
* cdCon Updates, CFP, Kara de la Marck
    * cdCon CFP is open: https://events.linuxfoundation.org/cdcon/program/cfp/#overview
        - Suggestion from Kara is to submit a talk even if we donât know if weâre allowed to travel yet
* SIG Interoperability Co-chair nominations/elections, Fatih Degirmenci, All
* Open Infra Summit Berlin, Jeremy Stanley
    * CFP for upcoming Open Infra Summit is open
    * There is a CI/CD track as part of summit
    * CFP is available here: https://cfp.openinfra.dev/app/berlin-2022
* SupplyChainSecurityCon
    * It will be colocated in Open Source Summit NA
    * CFP is available here: https://events.linuxfoundation.org/open-source-summit-north-america/about/supplychainsecuritycon/
* New work around terminology for pipeline [stages](https://github.com/cdfoundation/sig-interoperability/pull/76) and [steps](https://github.com/cdfoundation/sig-interoperability/pull/81) - see links to PRs. Ann Marie Fred
* Updating SIG Interoperability Roadmap, Reminder
    * Software Supply Chain
        * Standardized Metadata
        * Artifact Handling
        * Policy Driven CD
    * Events
    * Link to the document: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1uf3sb-WJUp3Acd3WYL5SvgVECHevonufJOxd6KftOxc/edit#
* \<addme\>

#### Action Items
* \<addme\>
