###### tags: `SIG Interoperability`

# CDF Interoperability SIG Meetings (sig-interoperability)

[![HacmKD documents](https://hackmd.io/badge.svg)](https://hackmd.io/HuufSDMaTPyb3qxkyBKg3A?edit)

## Quick links

* [Logistics](#Logistics)
* [Meeting Recordings](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL2KXbZ9-EY9QxICOnONBFPn_cYfJ8BsaG)
* [Agenda and Notes](#Agenda-and-Notes)
    * [2023-11-16 Meeting](#November-16-2023)
    * 2023-11-02 Meeting (Cancelled)
    * [2023-10-05 Meeting](#October-05-2023)
    * [2023-09-21 Meeting](#September-21-2023)
    * [2023-09-07 Meeting](#September-7-2023)
    * [2023-08-17 Meeting](#August-17-2023)
    * [2023-08-03 Meeting](#August-3-2023)
    * Pause for Summer Break
    * [2023-06-15 Meeting](#June-15-2023)
    * [2023-06-01 Meeting](#June-1-2023)
    * [2023-05-23 Meeting](#May-23-2023)
    * [2023-05-18 Meeting](#May-18-2023)
    * [2023-05-04 Meeting](#May-4-2023)
    * [2023-04-20 Meeting](#April-20-2023)
    * [2023-04-06 Meeting](#April-6-2023)
    * [2023-03-16 Meeting](#March-16-2023)
    * 2023-03-02 Meeting](Cancelled)
    * [2023-02-02 Meeting](#February-2-2023)(Cancelled)
    * [2023-01-19 Meeting](#January-19-2023) 
    * 2022-12-15/2023-01-05 Meeting Cancelled for Winter Break
    * [2022-12-01 Meeting](#December-1-2022)
    * [2022-11-17 Meeting](#November-17-2022)
    * 2022-11-03 Meeting (Cancelled)
    * [2022-10-20 Meeting](#October-20-2022)
    * [2022-10-06 Meeting](#October-6-2022)
    * [2022-09-15 Meeting](#September-15-2022)
    * [2022-09-01 Meeting](#September-1-2022)
    * [2022-08-18 Meeting](#August-18-2022)
    * [2022-08-04 Meeting](#August-4-2022)
    * [2022-07-21 Meeting](#July-21-2022)
    * [2022-07-07 Meeting](#July-7-2022)
    * [2022-06-16 Meeting](#June-16-2022)
    * [2022-06-02 Meeting](#June-2-2022)
    * 2022-05-19 Meeting (Cancelled)
    * 2022-05-05 Meeting (Cancelled)
    * [2022-04-21 Meeting](#April-21-2022)
    * [2022-04-07 Meeting](#April-7-2022)
    * [2022-03-17 Meeting](#March-17-2022)
    * [2022-03-03 Meeting](#March-3-2022)
    * [2022-02-17 Meeting](#February-17-2022)
    * [2022-02-03 Meeting](#February-3-2022)
    * [2022-01-20 Meeting](#January-20-2022)

## Logistics

* **Meeting notes on HackMD.io**: https://hackmd.io/@cdfoundation/ry3TTB5DL
* **When**: First and third Thursdays at [3pm UTC](https://time.is/3pm_in_UTC) during summer time and at [4pm UTC](https://time.is/4pm_in_UTC) during winter time).
* **Zoom Bridge**: https://zoom.us/j/827082528?pwd=RlN5OUZtVVBuZGZRY0NBRnZyZ0NJQT09
* **Zoom International dial-in numbers**: https://zoom.us/zoomconference
* **Meeting Recordings**: [CDF Youtube Channel SIG Interoperability Playlist](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL2KXbZ9-EY9QxICOnONBFPn_cYfJ8BsaG)
* **CDF Public Calendar**: [here](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=linuxfoundation.org_mhf0kmgedn67ihni8r129avp24%40group.calendar.google.com&ctz=America%2FLos_Angeles)
* **Past Presentations in CDF Presentations Repository**: https://github.com/cdfoundation/presentations/tree/master/sig-interoperability
* **Presentation Schedule**: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Owg_I52WEXzqF8g_lX6OTdwbHkH4Z2-7TBA7eCSVMqY/edit
* **2021 Meeting Minutes**: https://github.com/cdfoundation/sig-interoperability/blob/master/docs/meetings_2021.md
* **2020 Meeting Minutes**: https://github.com/cdfoundation/sig-interoperability/blob/master/docs/meetings_2020.md

## Upcoming Talks
Looking for  more! Feel free to suggest ideas in the Interoperability SIG slack channel.

## Agenda and Notes

Meeting agenda and notes are kept on [HackMD.io](https://hackmd.io/@cdfoundation/ry3TTB5DL) where everyone can add new topics to the agenda for upcoming meetings or take notes during the meetings. Please click edit button to edit the document.

If you are looking for 2021 minutes of meetings, please take a look at [Meetings 2021 document](https://github.com/cdfoundation/sig-interoperability/blob/master/docs/meetings_2021.md) in SIG Interoperability repository on GitHub.

### November 16, 2023
* Melissa McKay, JFrog
* Dadisi Sanyika, Apple
* Fatih Degirmenci, CDF
* Andrea Frittoli, IBM
* ADDME

#### Agenda & Notes
* Focus Topics
    * Whitepaper
        * Melissa/Dadisi still need to get together to produce draft
        * ACTION: Melissa to begin draft for comment
        * Remember to include mention of licensing issues
    * Reference Architecture
        * Still a work in progress
        * Possibly January timeframe for putting something out
    * Visualization
        * Erikson - grafana based dashboard to visualize events
            * repo in CDEvents
        * Andrea - KubeCon conversation with [CNOE.io](https://cnoe.io)
            * IDP space (backstage portal)
            * CDEvents discussion
    * Metrics
        * Nothing here (YET!)
    * Value Stream
        * Steve mentioned reaching out to us about collaborating with the Value Stream group
* Plan for next meeting(s)
    * Melissa: proposed cancelling Dec 21st and Jan 4th meeting for winter break
    * Progress report on open items next meeting on Jan 7th
* Open Disscussion
    * Limited time for most of us this time of year
    * Interoperability discussions on CDEvents
        * Melissa: Ensure we are not overlapping too much with CDEvents SIG; supporting but not closing door to additional ideas that might come up
        * Andrea: CDEvents SIG is focused more on technical aspects, support with whitepaper and example ref arch very much needed/appreciated
        * Dadisi: CDEvents is "the thing" we currently have to show Interoperability in action, so keeping Interoperability SIG updated and involved is very much relevant and we should continue

### November 2, 2023
--CANCELLED--

### October 5, 2023
* Dadisi Sanyika, Apple
* David Custer, Comcast
* ADDME

#### Agenda & Notes
* Open Discussion
    * Comcast interests in joining CDF, Interoperability group


### September 21, 2023
* Dadisi Sanyika, Apple
* Melissa McKay, JFrog

#### Agenda & Notes
* Focus Topics
    * Whitepaper
        * Dadisi & Melissa getting together 9/29
    * Reference Architecture
    * Visualization
        * Action Item: Define intent
            * Begin to Collect Use Case 
            * Consider different groups - what's needed
                * DevOps
                * Developers
                * Managers
                * Other Business Units
        * Metrics
        * Value Stream
            * Change Management
            * Performance


### September 7, 2023
* Dadisi Sanyika, Apple
* Fatih Degirmenci, CDF

#### Agenda & Notes
* Open Items
    * Mission Statement / Outreach / Marketing / Whitepaper
    * Roadmap
        * Setting more inclusive aspirations
            * How to engage with folks new to the CDF
        * Near Term
            * Interoperability Use Case Primer / Where to get started
            * How to get started woth Visualization
            * Useful Metrics
            * Basic Value Stream
        * Mid-term
            * Build from what you've learned
            * How to DSL discussion
* Increasing Engagement
    * Interoperability let's you replace different components
    * License changes may impact projects
        * Are you competing with the project owner?
        * What is the impact of being a vendor using the projects?
        * What is the availability alternative solutions?
        * This is new to open source
        * Fork the project before the change in license
        * Foundations represent pre-competetive collaboration
            * No risk of the trend 
            * IP is assigned to the non-profit foundation
            * The CLA assigns the copyright to the foundation
* Open Discussion


### August 17, 2023
* Dadisi Sanyika, Apple
* Fatih Degirmenci, CDF
* Damian Curry, NGINX
* ADDME

#### Agenda & Notes
* Open Items
    * Mission Statement
    * Roadmap -- https://pbs.twimg.com/media/EDd1avQWsAEVrrz?format=jpg
        * Near term
            * Visualization
            * Metrics
            * Basic Value Stream
            * How can you contribute immediately
            * How to gain a sense of inclusion to the project?
                * What can I do to contribute?
                * Tell us the problems you have
                * Fail fast -- discover what can be done 
        * Mid-term
            * Discovery actionable issue from engagements
            * Interoperability DSL
        * Future
            * Compliance to CDF standards
    * Whitepaper
        * Dadisi Contribution Update (White Paper)
    * Engagement Materials
    * Reference Architecture / Paltform Engineering
        * [CD Reference Architecture - Capabilities](/A-VRf2cNTOuO_ZULSIb5pQ)
    * Supply Chain Topic -- Action Items
        * Email SIG Chairs
    * Increasing Engagement
* Interoperablity DSL Goals
    * Challenges:
        * CDEvents is declartive *not* imperative
        * Producers emit events *not* consume
        * Message Broker or Bus needed 
        * Interoperability vs Integration
        * Security, Identity, Authorization
    * What is possible?
        * Standardization of core CD processes with adherence to messaging format
        * Value Stream Management
        * Show the options 
            * What the baseline
            * Where can you progress
            * Reference architecture should progress thru small use cases to enterprise
            * Show the benefits early in the progression 
        * Raise the problem space awareness
        * Start at the broad problem description 
        * Create tracks around for the Interoperability topics
    * (Alternative) CDF Event/Messaging Bus?
        * This can wait 
* Open Discussion 

### August 3, 2023
* Melissa McKay, JFrog
* Dadisi Sanyika, Apple
* Fatih Degirmenci, CDF
* Andrea Frittoli, IBM
* ADDME

#### Agenda & Notes

* Welcome back! 
* Open items
    * Mission Statement/Roadmap
    * Whitepaper
        * Dadisi waiting on legal approval - revisit next meeting
        * Concrete material to share with community & drive engagement
* Interoperability Relaunch Topic Discussion
    * Reference Architecture / Platform Engineering
        * Good starting point for following topics & for relaunch
        * Collect the digital assets and begin!
            * app.diagrams.net - Andrea has good starting points
            * Reference Architecture Documentation on Best Practices
                * https://bestpractices.cd.foundation/architecture/capabilities/
                * Possible identify functional capabilities & diagram
        * Other efforts ongoing
            * Open SSF
            * VSMI
            * [CNOE](https://github.com/cnoe-io)
            * Andrea: gathering ideas/materials in doc before PTO
    * Visualization
    * Metrics
    * Pipeline DSL
    * Risk Management
    * Value Stream Management
        * Currently driven by SIG Events but has tight relation to overall interoperability area
    * Considerations about content:
        * Remain holistic
        * Set context (org type, different titles)
        * Recognize differing needs/requirements
        * Start with SOMETHING to get community feedback
* Supply Chain Topic Discussion
    * Get email out from current co-chairs about combining groups
    * Melissa: contact co-chairs
* Increasing Engagement / Promotion (review ideas from previous meetings)
    * Draft email to re-engage/re-introduce the group
    * Educate about the Interoperability SIG
        * Next meeting - speaker on Interoperability?
            * History & accomplishments thus far
            * What input are we looking for? give examples for new folks
        * Integration vs interoperability
            * We have slides for this! Fatih: [KubeCon Road to Interoperability presentation](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/16t0Fpa5a5Jplc6AQ1OD3jyG290OvtdS-0aSiqeIx5N0/edit?usp=sharing)
    * Community outreach
        * New marketing material
            * Blog
                * Write new or reintroduce [blog from 2020](https://cd.foundation/blog/2021/01/19/cdf-sig-interoperability-2020-year-in-review/)
        * Individual & CDF social 
        * Any upcoming speaking events?
            * CDF Summit - Spain
            * Distribute whitepaper at events
        * Badges?
        * Regular communication
            * Surveys
        * Best Practices Workshop?
            * Engage Workshop Group



### June 15, 2023
* Melissa McKay, JFrog
* Dadisi Sanyika, Apple
* Andrea Frittoli, IBM
* ADDME

#### Agenda & Notes
* Nominations - co-chair announcement
    * Congratulations to Dadisi! Melissa: will update mailing list, etc
* Continue discussion on Interoperability mission & roadmap
    * Reference Architecture work
        * beginning state - possible involvement by NGINX
    * Bringing in Supply Chain SIG?
        * Focus our resources into a single SIG
        * Reserve time for Supply Chain discussion and re-evaluate moving to a separate group if it makes sense
* Relauch Plans (actions prior to Aug 3)
    * Dadisi working on writing
        * mission statement
    * Kubecon submission?
        * brainstorm some ideas - CFP closes the 18th
        * possible reference architecture submission? (but risky)
    * Share with slack & mailing list about relaunch plans, vaca plans, etc
    * Setup meeting tomorrow about ref arch


### June 1, 2023
* Melissa McKay, JFrog
* Dadisi Sanyika, Apple
* Fatih Degirmenci, CDF

#### Agenda & Notes
* Announcement: nomination for new co-chair
    * Justin stepping down
    * Open nominations
* Vacation plans? Plan for pausing meeting
    * We will be pausing in July, so save relaunch efforts for August
* Continue discussion on Interoperability mission & roadmap
    * Dadisi and Melissa met on May 23rd to begin this update process
    * Platform engineering - is there a better way to bring in tools within existing platforms
    * Visualization
    * Metrics
    * CD Events - linking, attestation
* Continue discussion on how to increase engagement
    * Blog
        * Write new or reintroduce [blog from 2020](https://cd.foundation/blog/2021/01/19/cdf-sig-interoperability-2020-year-in-review/)
    * Community outreach
        * Individual social & speaking events
    * Reintroduce & educate the Interoperability SIG
        * History & accomplishments thus far
        * What input are we looking for? give examples for new folks
        * Integration vs interoperability
            * We have slides for this! Fatih: [KubeCon Road to Interoperability presentation](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/16t0Fpa5a5Jplc6AQ1OD3jyG290OvtdS-0aSiqeIx5N0/edit?usp=sharing)
        * Whitepaper
    * Target August 3rd for promotion and relaunch


### May 23, 2023
* Dadisi
* Melissa

### Notes - Roadmap Review
* What's the mission of the Interoperability SIG?
    * Increase membership
        * new marketing material
        * draft email to re-engage/re-introduce the group

    * Teaching/Education
        * badges
        * best practices workshops?
        * engage Workshop SIG

    * Pipeline DSL


### May 18, 2023
* Melissa McKay, JFrog
* ADDME

#### Agenda & Notes

* Announcements, Updates
    * CDCon recap

* SIG Interoperability Roadmap Review and Update
    * Time got away from us at cdCon + GitOpsCon
    
* Interoperability Whitepaper
    * The work to update the whitepaper is ongoing

### May 4, 2023

#### Participants
* Melissa McKay, JFrog
* Fatih Degirmenci, CDF
* Dadisi Sanyika, Apple
* ADDME

#### Agenda & Notes

* TAG App Delivery and CDEvents Collaboration
    * A few CDF community members joined the [CNCF TAG App Delivery](https://github.com/cncf/tag-app-delivery) Meeting on May 3rd and discussed potential opportunities to collaborate
    * The discussion is still in its early phases but both communities are interested in and excited to collaborate
    * One of the initial steps CNCF TAG App Delivery is to update [Pod-tato Head](https://github.com/podtato-head/podtato-head) project to introduce CDEvents there
    * The consensus within the group was to reconvene in about a month to continue discussions
    * Meeting minutes are available [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1OykvqvhSG4AxEdmDMXilrupsX2n1qCSJUWwTc3I7AOs/edit#heading=h.wohj84vlpmok)
* SIG Interoperability Roadmap
    * The work to update the roadmap will start during cdCon + GitOpsCon
* Interoperability Whitepaper
    * The work to update the whitepaper is ongoing
* Reaching out to others
    * Dagger

#### Action Items
* 


### April 20, 2023

#### Participants
* Melissa McKay, JFrog
* Dadisi Sanyika, Apple
* Victor

#### Agenda & Notes

* Sponsorship of the SIG
* Define agenda for upcoming meetings, including speakers we may want to come speak.
* Goals of the SIG this year?
    * Research other attempts at this (Surely they exist!)
        * Consider Pulumi, Dagger, others?
        * ACTION: Dadisi speak with Apple folks
    * Get started on CI/CD Specification 
        * Produce relevant diagrams
        * Perhaps focus on CI only first
        * Consider an initial implementation(Review [Dagger Recording](https://youtu.be/65WjUohcYEQ?list=PL2KXbZ9-EY9QxICOnONBFPn_cYfJ8BsaG&t=400))
        * Work on getting buyin from well known projects
* Complete [whitepaper](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1o5jHbuEQuspwYOruVB4L5-rG8E1wQm5chq8QN7BrrBs/edit#)?
    * Dadisi has started on breaking this content up, cleaning it up for a specific audience
        * Working with Fatih 

* ACTION ITEMS
    * Melissa: cleanup notes, cleanup recording list, basic housekeeping.


### April 6, 2023

#### Participants
* Melissa McKay, JFrog
* Fatih Degirmenci, CDF

#### Agenda & Notes

Moved the following agenda to the next meeting due to time change and low attendance

* Sponsorship of the SIG
* Define agenda for upcoming meetings, including speakers we may want to come speak.
* Goals of the SIG this year?
* Complete [whitepaper](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1o5jHbuEQuspwYOruVB4L5-rG8E1wQm5chq8QN7BrrBs/edit#)?

### March 16, 2023

#### Participants
* Melissa McKay, JFrog
* ADDME

#### Agenda & Notes

* Time Change - due to low attendance, discussed general Interoperability SIG background


### February 2, 2023

This meeting was cancelled. 
Updates on existing action items are deferred to the next meeting on Feb 16.


### January 19, 2023

#### Participants
* Ramin Akhbari, Salesforce
* Justin Abrahms, eBay
* Melissa McKay, JFrog
* Emil Bäckmark, Ericsson


#### Agenda & Notes

* Announcements!
    * CDCon CFP is OPEN 
        * https://cd.foundation/blog/2023/01/11/cdcon-2023-call-for-papers-now-open/
* go-scm update
    * #go-scm channel in CDF slack
* VSMI update
    * [Value Stream Mapping (VSM) Interoperability Technical Committee](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/tc_home.php?wg_abbrev=vsmi)
    * Andrea met with Helen for an intro
        * The orgs that sponsor the VSMI produce software in the are of value management (from feature description to value to users) and they have a big interoperability issue
        * their interop group is looking at what exists, especially in open source, to find what where synergies may exists
        * There seems to be an overlap with the interop / cdevents missions
    * Call scheduled with them next week (24th) to intro the CDF and discuss common goals/missions 
* [Whitepaper](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1o5jHbuEQuspwYOruVB4L5-rG8E1wQm5chq8QN7BrrBs/edit#) discussion
    * needs an editing pass
    * clarify goal - CTA
        * purely educational, a description, something else?
        * is this a solution looking for a problem?
            * REAL examples of times when Interoperability has been a problem are needed
    * API section is empty
    * Update to current state of the world (CDEvents references)
    * What to do with exiting contributors? Rewrite?
* Define agenda for upcoming meetings, including speakers we may want to come speak.
* Goals of the SIG this year?
    * Send reminders of meetings with agenda consistently at beginning of the week
    * Start a discussion in slack formalizing our goals
* Update on CDEvents
    * [testkube.io](https://testkube.io/) is interested in CDEvents
        * introduced themselves & presented at CDSummit in Detroit
            * https://cdsummit2022.sched.com/event/1BP0p/why-kubernetes-applications-require-a-new-approach-to-testing-using-testkube-bruno-lopes-kubeshop
        * contribution to our common Interoperability vocabulary in the context of testing may be valuable
* Follow up
        * Melissa - update past presentation SIG documentation: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Owg_I52WEXzqF8g_lX6OTdwbHkH4Z2-7TBA7eCSVMqY/edit#heading=h.lx7kiadw52fq
* Action Items:
    * Melissa: form working group around universal specification for pipeline 
        * Possible Members: Ramin & other colleagues?, Fatih?
    * Justin: discuss with Fatih about primary goal of whitepaper
    * Justin/Melissa: continue whitepaper review
    * Justin: cleanup/archive our notes
    * Andrea: reach out to testkube project to present to Interoperability group
